In this video, we're
going to look at creating
interactive infographics
for our dashboards.
We're actually starting
on the drill-down sheet,
which is a second
dashboard one has
created to allow
users to drill down,
and get more detail on
a particular region.
You would like to create
another small multiple.
This time, showing a series
of column charts that
indicate trends for
our top five countries
in terms of capacity.
One would like to create
another small multiple,
consisting of five small
column charts that show
the trends in renewable capacity
for the top five countries.
Creating five column
charts though,
could be quite time-consuming.
You may recall in the first week,
we had a look at a
very quick way of
creating multiple chance
called a sparkline.
But you're thinking,
"Hang on a second,
sparklines have to fit
inside a single cell. "
Well, usually yes, but
we're going to look at
how we can convert a
sparkline to a graphic.
To do this, we're
going to need to
go to our small
multiples worksheets.
I'm going to right-click
on my "Navigation" button,
and I'm going to double-click
"Small Multiples."
We have a pivot table here,
which is showing the trends from
2000-2019 where
our top five countries
were selected region.
We're going to start by
selecting the data for the US.
Then coming to our Insert tab,
we're going to click
"Column Sparkline."
Now, it's asking us
where we want to put it,
and we want it to go
into "$W$5" so I'm just
going to say, "Okay".
Let's change the color.
Our color is going to
be a light turquoise.
We're going to change
our marker as well.
We're going to come
to high point,
and make that a light green.
You may recall that
we can use our fill
handle to copy it down.
There are all five column charts,
too quick. Let's copy those.
I'm going to press "Control C",
and we're going to
come back to our
drill-down but here comes
the important part.
We're going to select a cell,
but instead of just pasting,
because that will
put it in the cells,
we're going to right-click
come to "Paste
Special" and we're
going to choose
the last option which
is "Linked Picture. "
What this has done,
and you could do this
with any cells in Excel,
is actually created an image
linked back to the
original sparklines.
If they change, this will update.
We're going to move
them onto the tile now.
I'm just going to make
that a little bit wider.
Let's see that interactive part.
[inaudible] created a slice,
and we're going to look at
slices more on the next video.
What they allow us to
do is filter data.
This slicer is linked back to
the small multiples pivot,
so when we click on Asia,
it filters the small
multiples pivot table,
and in turn, that
filters our sparklines,
which we can see are changing.
Fantastic. I'm going
to clear that filter.
For the next one,
I'm going to need
you to come to the job sheet.
Here we have a pivot table
which is showing us
the number of jobs
available in
different renewable energy source
fields for a given year.
[inaudible] has already
created the pivot chart,
but he'd actually like to see
each source in the legend,
which means he needs them
to show as row labels.
We're going to select
our pivot chart,
we're going to come
to the design tab,
and we're going to
switch row column data.
There's something
that's gone a bit funny
with our third series here,
so I'm just going to
select that third bar.
We are going to come
up to our format,
and we're going to change
the shape fill to Aqua.
While we're here, let's
get rid of that border.
I'm going to select the chart,
and our shape outline is
going to be no outline.
There's our finished chart,
but instead of putting
numbers on these bars,
[inaudible] would
like to represent
every 200,000 jobs as a person.
We're going to do this with
a really simple graphic.
This black box shows
25 people in a row,
and they're basically
transparent.
When I drag this onto my chart,
make it a tiny bit wider,
it looks like I'm
seeing an info-graphic.
If I were to filter it
to show 2017's data,
you can see it
immediately adjusts.
Very simple, chart and graphic
to creating info-graphic.
Let's put those all
on the dashboard.
I'm going to select once you
select my actual graphic.
Hold my shift select my chart,
and we'll grab the
key at the same time.
I'm going to copy control C,
come back to the dashboard
and I'll just click on
the right over here and
paste and then we can just
move that all into place.
You might just need
to adjust your key.
Let's go and have a look
at our last example.
This time I need you to come
to the investment sheet.
You may recall this was
the Pivot table we
created to show
the top five countries
where there was
renewable investment
for a given year.
Ron has already created
a very stylish
looking pivot chart.
By removing all the
extraneous noise,
you can actually focus
on the key information.
Ron would like to make
one more change, though.
Instead of having these
squared off edges,
he would like it to look that
different and be rounded.
Now here's a very
interesting thing.
You can actually grab a shape,
any shape copy control C,
click onto one of your
columns or bars in
your chart and paste
and it will replace it.
The only problem is we're getting
a much steeper curve
on the bigger values.
It doesn't look great.
I'm going to undo that
and we're going to look at
how we can fix that problem.
What we really need to do is
effectively split the
bars into two sections,
so the top is always the same.
That way we can paste
this just onto the top.
We're going to do
exactly that by using
calculated fields. A
little bit more revision.
Clicking into our pivot table,
we're going to come
to pivot table,
analyze, come to fields,
items and sets and
we're going to create
a calculated field for the
bottom part of the bar.
I'm going to call it bottom.
It's going to be equal
to the US dollar millions,
but minus 800,
because that's the amount
we're going to put on top.
I'm going to say
"Okay". Now because
this is a stacked column
chart, it's put it on top.
Let's add another one.
Fields, items and sets.
Calculated field.
This is going to be our top.
This is even easier.
It's going to be 800 and
I'm going to say, "Okay".
Now it's looking a little
odd at the moment,
but let's go and add
some data labels
and then we'll look
at fixing it up.
I've clicked onto a bar,
I'm going to hit my plus and I'm
going to turn on data labels.
I'm going to select my labels.
I going to make a few changes.
I'm going to drop the
size down to eight.
I'm going to change
the font to white,
and I'm going to change
the fill to black.
Then one other
thing, control one.
Let's actually position
those at the inside end.
Alright, now let's
go and actually
fix up the chart itself.
Selecting the bottom bar,
which is our sum of
US dollar millions.
We actually don't want to
see that in the chart.
The temptation would be to
remove it from the pivot.
But you actually
need that amount for
your calculation of
sum of bottom to work.
What we're going to do
instead is hide it.
This is a two-step operation.
First of all, coming to
our format data series,
we're going to come to fill
and we are going to
specify no fill.
Then on our border we are
going to specify no line.
It's hidden, but you
can still see it.
Here's the other important step.
We are going to come
to our design tab,
change chart type.
We're going to put
sum of bottom and
sum of top on a secondary axis,
effectively hiding our US
dollar millions behind them.
When we say "Okay"
we're getting there.
Let's just hide
that secondary axis
because we don't
actually want that.
Now just a few little
changes to color.
I'm going to select the bottom,
come to format change
our shape fill,
just going for
standard green here.
Now comes the moment we've
been looking forward to,
I'm going to select
my shape control C,
click on the top series
and paste control
V. There's my
finished infographic.
When I filter it
to see 2016 data,
you can see it
immediately adjusts.
Right, let's put that onto
our dashboard so control
C back to our dashboard.
I'm just going to put
that into position.
You might need to
resize slightly.
The dashboard is coming
together very nicely,
but at the moment we have
no way of interacting with these.
That's what we're going
to look at when we
add slices to this dashboard.